<!-- Improved compatibility of back to top link: See: https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/pull/73 -->
<a name="readme-top"></a>
<!--
*** Thanks for checking out the Best-README-Template. If you have a suggestion
*** that would make this better, please fork the repo and create a pull request
*** or simply open an issue with the tag "enhancement".
*** Don't forget to give the project a star!
*** Thanks again! Now go create something AMAZING! :D
-->



<!-- PROJECT SHIELDS -->
<!--
*** I'm using markdown "reference style" links for readability.
*** Reference links are enclosed in brackets [ ] instead of parentheses ( ).
*** See the bottom of this document for the declaration of the reference variables
*** for contributors-url, forks-url, etc. This is an optional, concise syntax you may use.
*** https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links
-->
<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->
<br />
<div align="center">

<h3 align="center">Wordle</h3>

  <p align="center">
   A CLI Python clone of the popular online word game
    <br />
  </p>
</div>

#### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/3N8mBNtdO_s

<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->
## About The Project
Welcome to my CS50p final project! My idea was to create a Wordle clone in Python where I practiced using multiple specific functions, as well as put a toe in the waters of OOP. This proved to be a fun project with some unexpected challenges!


## The word lists
The game requires two separate list of five letter words: valid guesses and targets. Thankfully that work has already been done for me (we're talking thousands of words) and life's too short, so I used prebuilt lists from some helpful online sources. Shoutout to <a href="https://gist.github.com/dracos/dd0668f281e685bad51479e5acaadb93"> dracos</a> and <a href="https://gist.github.com/cfreshman/a03ef2cba789d8cf00c08f767e0fad7b">cfreshman</a>.

## Using Classes
I wanted to take a crack at using classes, so I had to decide where to implement some OOP. It didn't make sense to turn EVERYTHING into classes, it's not that complicated a program, but since I need to format color codes into individual letters to provide hints to the players, I decide to use a Letter class. By creating lists of Letter objects with color properties, I have more control over how they are printed both in clues as WELL as my graphical keyboard.



## Gameplay
In order to simulate the webapp version in the CLI, I give the player what I call a Clue Stack(what I've dubbed the list of previous guesses generated each turn) as well as a QWERTY keyboard to show used letters. This was tricky because there are certain edge cases involving yellow and green letters when there are 2 or 3 instances of the same letter in a word. It's been a few months since I actually coded this part, so I'll be honest, I don't remember exactly how I fixed that, but I know it works.

But essentially it's working identically to the online version where for every turn, the player is shown what letters in their guess match EXACTLY (green), which are in the word but not the same location (yellow), and on the keyboard, which letters have been used but not in the answer (grey). These are colored using ANSI escape codes generated by class methods within the Letter objects.

After the player guesses correctly, or the turns run out, the game ends with a success or failure message.

## Unit Testing
Because of the nature of having lists of objects, my tests I had to write for some of these functions were pretty elaborate due to the amount of arguments they required. Also, some of my functions were print functions, and I'm not entirely sure how to test those... Needless to say, I probably could've done more research into how to test what I have, or write them in a way that they could be tested more easily.

## Things I learned

I think in the future I'll make a better effort to REALLY comment out my code, especially as I'm learning new concepts. Since I built this sporadically over a few months, I've had a tough time remembering why I did certain things in certain situations, and I did myself no real favors with some of my design choices. But I will say it's not complete spaghetti, and my functions are clean, precise, and singular. Also, I'd like to build something a little more complex in the future that really relies on using OOP so I can fully grasp it's usefulness. What I ran into in the beginning of this project was questioning just how necessary it would be in this instance, which is why I scaled back to just the one class.

Also, I think it'd be useful to have a sources/bibliography file in my directory so that I'm not having to go back and remember where I got resources from (i.e. my word lists)

## Final Thoughts

I enjoy games like these, and I think this was a valuable exercise in cementing some python skills.

## Contact

Steven Bailey - [@IAMSTEVENBAILEY](https://twitter.com/IAMSTEVENBAILEY)



<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- ACKNOWLEDGMENTS -->
## Acknowledgments

* []()Thank you to Harvard University for putting out such an INCREDIBLE resource!
* And thanks to <a href="https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template/pull/73">othneildrew</a> for the README template!
<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

